# Electric Vehicle Presence Discovery


The purpose of this project is to identify if a household has an electric vehicle or not.
This information will help energy companies identify the needs of the consumers.  
 
The objective of this study would be to recognize which residential homes own electric vehicles.
This information would provide more insights into the needs of energy in homes. Electric Vehicles require much energy to charge. 
Being able to predict where electric vehicles are can lead to energy companies have a better estimate of how much energy certain homes need. 
This can also lead to energy companies being able to provide better energy saving/money saving tips for their consumers.

The main research question that this project will work to answer is Which residential homes have Electric Vehicles  
 
There data sources is Data port’s Pecan street. Dataport’s Pecan street database has many features of use for this objective. 
It can provide information on houses that have Electric vehicles, how much energy they use and many other essential pieces of information. 
Dataport has another table called electricity_egauage_hours this will provide us with the hourly electricity consumption of the residential 
households. This will be merged with the data ditionary that provides information on each of the DataID's. 

This is a classification problem. To start with the data would be collected, cleaned and put together. 
The next step is the Exploratory Data Analysis. This is used to ensure that the right data is included and to test the data for
confounding variables, distributions, correlations, and feature importance. The final step is modeling.   
Models that are useful in classification problems include logistic regression, random forest, decision trees, K-nearest neighbor, 
support vector machine, and neural networks. All these models can be tested and hyperparameter tuning will be an essential step in model 
adjustment. The models can be ranked based on accuracy, precision, recall and f1 score to identify the best model. 

